---
title: How to learn what I want
image: https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1659177147979-103a1fb2f336?auto=format&fit=crop&q=80&w=1931&ixlib=rb-4.0.3&ixid=M3wxMjA3fDB8MHxwaG90by1wYWdlfHx8fGVufDB8fHx8fA%3D%3D
categories: Observation
---
The neural networks the body executes to solve a mathematical problem it is exposed to are not the same as those it executes in order to recall a fact to answer a question or to argue an idea.

---
For me, learning is the construction of new neurons and neural networks[^1] on existing ones by the body[^2] in the anatomy[^3].

As such, the result of learning is the presence of new neural connections, networks of statements that could be executed by the body for different purposes in different circumstances, consciously or unconsciously, i.e. by my will or by instinct[^4] triggering an internal or external reaction of the anatomy. For example, the neural networks the body executes to solve a mathematical problem it is exposed to are not the same as those it executes in order to recall a fact to answer a question or to argue an idea.

We are all born with certain neural networks already in place, those vital for our survival. That said, every internal or external behavior of the anatomy is the result of the execution of a set of neural networks by the body. If a certain network is not used for a long time or is not constantly used, it is suppressed. Eventually, the construction and destruction of neural networks happen kind of in the background, i.e. without me being able to influence it directly.

The body is almost always learning something, and the learning process or its result leads to many changes: of myself (the words), my body, my anatomy, my behaviors, either positively or negatively. New networks override old ones or extend them. The question becomes: when and what the body is learning, and how long it takes it to build reliable networks, i.e., networks whose execution result is not liable to confusion, contradiction, or uncertainty[^5].

Learning starts at the moment of the body's exposure to a source of knowledge. That is, as soon as the body is exposed to a new source of knowledge, it begins learning, unless something prevents it from doing so. And since we are almost always exposed to new sources of knowledge, both good and bad, explicit and subliminal, the body is also almost always learning.

The body's state during exposure to the materials it is exposed to, affects how long it will take it to learn a new knowledge and how well it will learn it. The body's state is a reflection of my state, the state of "I" (The real me). I believe that I can be in one of three states: the I am state, the compulsive state, or the idle state.

In the I am state, I embody an identity solely for the sake of being everything that identity is. That is, an identity whose meaning is not found in or through others, but exclusively within its own being.

In the compulsive state, I embody the identity of the body, which is perverse by nature, meaning extremely agitated and unreasonable, and mostly inclined towards pleasures, seeking attention in order to feel good.

In the idle state, I embody no identity. I simply feel drained of motivation, pale, sleepy, and oppressed.

The I am state is the best state to be in for the body to learn quickly. In this state, because the I am state embodies a clear identity, I will not fall into one of the two other states, and neither will the body. The body will only follow the state that I am in. In this state, the body is calm and focused on learning what it is being exposed to.

To assist the body further in this state, it is important to vary your interaction with knowledge by going through practical exercises if possible, questioning, careful reading, and retries/repetition. It is also important not to try to force this state. It should come through clear identity visualization.

The compulsive state is the state in which I and the body will only feel good when exposed to perverse or familiar knowledge or skills and will feel frustrated and bored when exposed to any new or challenging valuable knowledge or skill.

The idle state is the state in which the tendency to fall into the compulsive state gets updated, so the neuronal networks leading to the compulsive state are perfected. It is important to block this state as soon as possible, e.g., by going to sleep in order to reset your state. However, once awake, it is important to enter the I am state, in which learning valuable skills feels normal and neutral.

### Footnote

[^1]: Executable knowledge
[^2]: To understand as energy and not as the anatomy
[^3]: The anatomy
[^4]: The will of the body
[^5]: This is for example the case when I answer a question with 100% certitude that it is the correct answer and that it is well formulated. Otherwise I am either not so sure of my answer or of the way I formulated it. This is a sign of malformed, blured or incomplete neuronal networks.
